---
layout: post
title: Constructor in c++
date: 2015-08-26 10:00
categories: c++
tags:
- constructor
- c++
- class
---

* auto-gen TOC:
{:toc}

## 1. What is a **Constructor**

**Defination:**

>
Constructors are *special member function(s)* of the related class. The job of a constructor is to **initialize the data members** of a class object. A constructor is run whenever an object of a class type is **created**.
Constructors handles what will happen when a object of a class type is created.

**Tips:**

>
A class also have other kinds of construtors to handle different ways of creating an object of a class type.  
- Creating object: **(normal?)constructor**, it creats object by initializers.    
- Moving object  : **moving construtor**, it creats object by copying another object with the same type.       
- Copy object    : **copy construtor**,  it creats object by moving anthter object wiht the same type.

- Constructors don't have return value.

- **default constructor** is a constructor without any **non-default** parameter.

## 2. How do construtor work

If we do not explicitly initialize a member in the constructor initializer list, that member is default initialized **before** the constructor body starts executing.

## 3.Categories of Constructors

1. `Default constructor`: The default constructor is one that takes no arguments.  
2. `Synthesized default constructor` : The default constructor generated by the compiler.  
3. `Delegating constructor` : A delegating constructor uses another constructor from its own class to perform its initialization. It is said to “delegate” some (or all) of its work to this other constructor.
4. `Converting constructor` : Every constructor which can be called with **one non-default** parameter without specifier `explicit`. This constructor defines a implicit conversion to the *class type*



