---
layout: post
title:  Increment/Decrement operators
date:   2015-08-25
categories: c++
tags:
- c++
- operator

---
* auto-gen TOC:
{:toc}

There are two kinds of *increment/decrement operator* : `++`,`--`.

There are two forms: **prefix** and **postfix**.

## 1. What do they do
- prefix form `++i/--i` will increment/decrement the vlaue of `i`, then then return the incremented value.

~~~cpp
 i = 1;
 j = ++i;
 (i is 2, j is 2)
~~~ 

- postfix form `i++/i--` will also increment/decrement the value of `i`, but returns the original value of `i` before increment.

~~~cpp
 i = 1;
 j = i++;
 (i is 2, j is 1)
~~~

Reference:



## 2. Why
Why they are different? Let's look at the essence of these operators.

- `++i` ==> `T& operator++(T& a)`
- `--i` ==> `T& operator--(T& a)`
- `i++` ==> `T operator++(T& a, int)`
- `i--` ==> `T operator--(T& a, int)`

Now, we understand what happens. **prefix** form actually returns a *reference* of the calling object, while **postfix** returns the *value* of call object.

* Because a temporary copy of the object is constructed during post-increment and post-decrement, **pre-increment or pre-decrement operators** are usually more efficient in contexts where the returned value is not used.

## 3. Define increment operator
Look at following program:

{% highlight cpp %}
class Integer
{
    public:
    Integer& operator++() {
        x_ += 1;
        return this;    
    }
    const Integer operator++(int) {
        Integer tmp = *this; // need copy the object, slow down the speed.
        ++*this;
        return tmp;
    }
    
    private:
    int x_;
};
{% endhighlight %}

## 4. c++ style

Usually, in c++ we use **prefix form**.



-----------

## Reference:

1. [What is the difference between ++i and i++](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/24853/what-is-the-difference-between-i-and-i#_=_)
2. [Increment/decrement operators](http://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/operator_incdec)
3. [Pre-increment or post-increment in C/C++](http://www.embedded.com/design/programming-languages-and-tools/4410601/Pre-increment-or-post-increment-in-C-C-)
